Avoid term Gender

TH
EN
Meaning/Context
ผู้ชาย-ผู้หญิง/ชาย-หญิง
Men-Women
Using only male and female as gender options defines human or citizen 
based on binary gender, which may exclude people with diverse gender identities.
พ่อแม่
Father-Mother
A definition of parents that defines them based on binary gender norms by assigning 
fixed roles.
สามี-ภรรยา/ผัว-เมีย
Husband/Wife
A definition of couple or life partner that defines them based on binary gender norms 
by assigning fixed roles, such as a husband being the breadwinner while a wife being 
responsible for housework and childcare. It may exclude people with diverse 
gender identities and non-traditional partnerships.
บุคคลที่มีมดลูก
Birthing people/People with uteruses
A definition of pregnant people that relies solely on genital organs may reinforce or 
stereotype that only women can become pregnant, excluding others with the ability 
to carry a pregnancy, such as transgender men or non-binary people.
เพศทางเลือก/เพศที่สาม/รักร่วมเพศ/
พวกแปลงเพศ/ผิดเพศ
Alternative lifestyle/Tranny/She-male/Ladyboy/
Transsexual/Homosexual
A definition that defines non-binary or non-traditional gender identities as marginal 
people reinforce binary and patriarchal views of gender. It also positions non-traditional identities as secondary or less valid.
ชายแท้ หญิงแท้
Normal people/Straight people
A definition that defines people based on binary gender norms, such as masculinity and femininity, which exclude and stereotype other gender identities as marginal people or abnormal. It also reinforces rigid and exclusionary views of gender.
เพศแท้/เพศจริง
Straight
A definition that defines people based on binary gender norms, such as masculinity and femininity, which exclude and stereotype other gender identities as marginal people or abnormal. It also reinforces that other identities are less valid or unnatural.
รสนิยมทางเพศ
Sexual preference
A definition that defines sexual orientation in an offensive sense because term like 
‘preference’ indicating that people can choose who they are sexually or romantically 
attracted to. It's just a choice.
คนสองเพศ/กะเทยสองเพศ
Hermaphrodite
A definition that defines intersex people with a stigmatized and misleading sense. 
It reinforces negative social connotations and dehumanizes people's identities.
การเปลี่ยนเพศ
Sex change
A definition that relies solely on physical or medical procedures, such as the term 
“sex change” can dehumanize people’s gender identities. It implies that gender is defined only by anatomy or surgery, and that individuals choose to “switch” from one identity to another, rather than affirming who they have always been.

