Preferred term Races

TH
EN
Meaning
ชุมชนกลุ่มชาติพันธุ์
Ethnic group, Ethnic community
A group of people who share a common cultural heritage, language, traditions, or ancestry. These communities often maintain distinct ways of life and may differ from the dominant culture in a society. Recognizing ethnic communities helps promote cultural diversity and inclusion.
ชาวไทยเชื้อสายมลายู
Thai Malays
It's considered as general polite term that does not emphasize people's races.
ไทใหญ่
Shan people
It’s neutral sense in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered 
as disrespectful.
ปกาเกอะญอ
Karen poeple
It’s neutral sense in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
ม้ง
Hmong poeple
It’s neutral sense in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered 
as disrespectful.
มลาบรี
Mlabri people
It’s neutral sense in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
มานิ
Mani people
It’s neutral sense in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
ลาหู่
Lahu people
It’s neutral in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
อาข่า
Akha poeple
It’s neutral in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
คนลาว
Lao people, Ethnic Lao
It’s neutral in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
คนผิวสี
People of color (POC)
It embraces the concept of inclusive of all people whose skin colors and 
other physical features are not commonly perceived as White features.
ชาวจีน
Chinese people
It’s neutral in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
ชาวญี่ปุ่น
Japanese people
It’s neutral sense in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered 
as disrespectful.
ชาวมุสลิม
Muslim communities, Muslim individuals
It’s respectful and inclusive sense in language and simply refers to people who identify with the Islamic faith. However, it should not be used to generalize or misrepresent individual based on religion, as such usage would be considered as  discrimination.
ชาวเวียดนาม
Vietnames people
It’s neutral in language and simply refers to a specific ethnic group based on people’s origin or cultural background. However, it should not be used to stereotype or dehumanize the groups, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
ชาวตะวันตก หรือระบุสัญชาติไปเลย
Westerners or mention people's nationality, 
such as American, German, British, French
It’s neutral and descriptive in language and simply refers to people from Western countries. However, it should not be used to promote stereotypes or cultural bias, as such usage would be considered as disrespectful.
การมีส่วนร่วมของบุคคล/ชุมชน
Community participation, 
Individual participation
It refers how people are involved in or connected with the broader structure, 
without being treated as marginal people or excluded individuals.
คน/บุคคล
Person, Individual
It's a neutral and respectful term used to refer to someone without labeling or bias. 
ชาวต่างชาติ/คนต่างประเทศ
Foreign nationals, International individuals
It’s neutral and inclusive sense in language that emphasizes people as global citizens, without being treated as marginal people or excluded individuals. 
ภาษาแม่/ภาษาท้องถิ่น
Mother tongue, Local language
It refers to the primary language that someone learns from childhood and 
uses most naturally.
วัฒนธรรมที่หลากหลาย
Cutural diversities
It embraces people from multicultural backgrounds and indicates that all cultures have value equally.
ผู้ใช้งานที่มาจากพื้นที่ต่าง ๆ
Users from diverse regions, Users from 
various locations
It indicates that all users come from different locations, experiences, and 
cultural contexts.

