Preferred term Gender

TH
EN
Meaning
บุคคล 
Person
Citizen, human. It's used to label someone as a person, not define them by sex or gender. It's considered as a neutral language.
บุพการี
Parent
A person who raises a child practically and legally.
คู่สมรส/ผู้หมั้น/ผู้รับหมั้น 
Spouse
Two people who agree to live their lives together as lovers
คู่ชีวิต/คู่รัก 
Partner
Two people who commit to live together as a couple or life partner no matter whose sex orientation or gender identity is.
บุคคลมีครรภ์
Pregnant women/Pregnant people
A person who can get pregnant.
ผู้มีความหลากหลายทางเพศ
LGBTQIA+ people/Queer community
A person whose gender identity exists outside or beyond the traditional gender binary (masculinity - feminity).
ไม่ระบุเพศ 
Prefer not to say
An option used for user who does not want to specify or reveal
their gender identity.
Cisgender
Cisgender
A person whose sex aligns with gender identity, such as person 
assigned females at birth identify gender identity as women.
อัตลักษณ์ทางเพศ/เพศอัตลักษณ์ 
Gender identity
A way to define someone's gender identity based on their internal sense 
of self, which may differ from an assigned sex at birth or traditional 
binary gender norms.
เพศ/เพศกำเนิด
Sex
A classification assigned at birth that is based on biological factors, male and female, such as genital organs, chromosomes, and hormones.
เควียร์
Queer
The inclusive term used to identify as LGBTQ+, whose gender identity, sexual orientation, or gender expression falls outside of traditional binary gender or sexuality.
ทรานส์เจนเดอร์ 
Transgender/Gender-diverse individuals
A person whose gender identity exists outside or beyond the assigned sex at birth, regardless of whether they have undergone medical transition or not.
นอนไบนารี่ 
Non-binary
The term used to identify the concept of gender that explains gender identity is diverse, and does not conform to the traditional binary gender (male-female).
เพศวิถี
Sexual orientation
A person's emotion and feeling of sexual pleasure, sexual attraction, 
or romantic attraction for someone, based on gender.
เฮเทอโรเซ็กชวล/คนรักเพศตรงข้าม 
Heterosexual individual
A person who is physically and emotionally attracted to people of different assigned sex at birth. 
คนรักเพศเดียวกัน 
LGBTQIA+ people/Queer community/Gay/
Lesbian etc.
A person who is physically and emotionally attracted to people of the same assigned sex at birth.
บุคคลสองเพศ/บุคคลที่มีลักษณะสองเพศ
Intersex individual
A person who born with biological or physical characteristics that do not fit typical definition of male or female, such as XXY chromosomes, or genital organs that have features of both sexes.
การข้ามเพศ/การยืนยันเพศ
Gender transition/Gender affirmation
The way of expressing or affirming gender that differs from an assigned sex at birth, which may include gender expression, gender affirmation surgery, and gender identity changes.

