Preferred term Medical

TH
EN
Meaning
การวินิจฉัย
Diagnosis
A process of checking, identifying, and determining a condition or illness based on signs, symptoms, and test results, it’s carried out by a qualified healthcare professional.
การรักษา
Treatment
The method of managing and healing a condition or illness based on evidence-based 
scientific and medical practices.
การป้องกัน
Prevention
The way of preventing the condition or illness based on evidence-based scientific and medical practices, such as vaccination, surgical interventions, or medication.
โรค
Disease
A condition or illness that disrupts normal function of body systems, organs, and tissues. It’s often diagnosed through medical evaluation and requires treatment to manage or cure.
โรคเรื้อรัง
Chronic disease
A condition or illness that lasts for a long period of time, such as high blood pressure, or diabetes.
โรคเฉียบพลัน/โรคฉับพลัน
Acute disease
A condition or illness that suddenly occurs, it would appear as severe and noticeable symptoms, but this can be treated in a short period of time, such as flu or acute infection.
จิตเภท
Schizophrenia
A chronic mental health condition that affects how a person thinks, feels, and behaves. It may involve hallucinations, delusions, disorganized thinking, and difficulty distinguishing reality. With proper treatment and support, many people with schizophrenia can live meaningful and productive lives.
จิตเวช
Psychiatry
A branch of medicine focused on the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of mental, 
emotional, and behavioral disorders. Psychiatrists are medical doctors who specialize in mental health care and may use therapy, medication, or other clinical methods to support individuals.
โรคทางจิตเวช, 
ภาวะทางจิตเวช
- Psychiatric disorders
- Mental disorder
- Mental health conditions
A mental health condition or disorder that impacts an individual’s cognitive functions, 
emotional regulation, or behavioral patterns, such as depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorders, and schizophrenia.
ผู้ป่วย
Patient
A person with a condition or illness should be properly treated or cured.
ผลข้างเคียง
Side effects
An unintended symptom caused from medical treatment, such as drowsiness or headache.
ภาวะ
Condition
An abnormal state affecting the body system, organs, or mind. It can be a cause or indicator of illness.
ยา
Medicine
A substance that affects both physical and mental health, it’s used to diagnose, cure, treat, and prevent a condition or illness. 
อาการ
Symptom
A patient’s experience that reflects both physical and mental health that indicates a possible health issue, such as headache or stomach discomfort. 

